# JFE, Volume 75, Issue 1
- January 2005
- Pages EX1-EX2, 3-242

## 1. Editorial Board
### Date
- Jan 2005
### Author
### Abstract

### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/S0304-405X(04)00208-9

## 2. The risk and return of venture capital
### Date
- Mar 2004
### Author
- John H. Cochrane
### Abstract
This paper measures the mean, standard deviation, alpha, and beta of venture capital investments, using a maximum likelihood estimate that corrects for selection bias. The bias-corrected estimation neatly accounts for log returns. It reduces the estimate of the mean log return from 108% to 15%, and of the log market model intercept from 92% to
-
7
%
. The selection bias correction also dramatically attenuates high arithmetic average returns: it reduces the mean arithmetic return from 698% to 59%, and it reduces the arithmetic alpha from 462% to 32%. I confirm the robustness of the estimates in a variety of ways. I also find that the smallest Nasdaq stocks have similar large means, volatilities, and arithmetic alphas in this time period, confirming that the remaining puzzles are not special to venture capital.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2004.03.006

## 3. Accounting transparency and the term structure of credit spreads
### Date
- Jul 2004
### Author
- Fan Yu
### Abstract
Theory predicts that the quality of a firm's information disclosure can affect the term structure of its corporate bond yield spreads. Using cross-sectional regression and Nelson-Siegel yield curve estimation, I find that firms with higher Association for Investment Management and Research disclosure rankings tend to have lower credit spreads. Moreover, this transparency spread is especially large among short-term bonds. These findings are consistent with the theory of discretionary disclosure as well as the incomplete accounting information model of Duffie and Lando (Econometrica 69 (2001) 633). The presence of a sizable short-term transparency spread can attenuate some of the empirical problems associated with structural credit risk models.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2004.07.002

## 4. The cross-section of expected corporate bond returns: Betas or characteristics?
### Date
- Apr 2004
### Author
- William R. Gebhardt
- Soeren Hvidkjaer
- Bhaskaran Swaminathan
### Abstract
This paper finds that default betas are significantly related to the cross-section of average bond returns even after controlling for characteristics such as duration, ratings, and yield-to-maturity. Among characteristics, only yield-to-maturity is significantly related to average bond returns after controlling for default and term betas. The default and term factors are able to price the returns of beta-sorted portfolios better than they do the returns of yield-sorted portfolios. The magnitude of the ex ante Sharpe ratio generated by yield-sorted portfolios suggests non-risk-based explanations. Overall, given the elusive nature of systematic risk in empirical asset pricing, the central finding of our paper is that systematic risk matters for corporate bonds.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2004.04.002

## 5. The timing of initial public offerings
### Date
- Apr 2003
### Author
- Simon Benninga
- Mark Helmantel
- Oded Sarig
### Abstract
We study the dynamics of IPOs by examining the tradeoff between an entrepreneur's private benefits, which are lost whenever the firm is publicly traded, and the gains from diversification. We characterize the timing dimension of the decision to go public and its impact on firm value and the evolution of firm risk over time. By endogenizing the timing of the decision to go public, we explain the clustering of IPOs and buyouts in time, the industry concentration of IPO waves, the high incidence of reprivatization of recent IPOs, and the long-run underperformance of recently issued stock relative to the shares of longer-listed companies.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2003.04.002

## 6. The effect of external finance on the equilibrium allocation of capital
### Date
- Jun 2004
### Author
- Heitor Almeida
- Daniel Wolfenzon
### Abstract
We develop an equilibrium model to understand how the efficiency of capital allocation depends on outside investor protection and the external financing needs of firms. We show that when capital allocation is constrained by poor investor protection, an increase in firms' external financing needs may improve allocative efficiency by fostering the reallocation of capital from low to high productivity projects. We also find novel empirical support for this prediction.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2004.06.001

## 7. The “make or take” decision in an electronic market: Evidence on the evolution of liquidity
### Date
- Jul 2004
### Author
- Robert Bloomfield
- Maureen O’Hara
- Gideon Saar
### Abstract
This paper uses experimental asset markets to investigate the evolution of liquidity in an electronic limit order market. Our market setting includes salient features of electronic limit order markets, as well as informed traders and liquidity traders. We focus on the strategies of the traders and how these are affected by trader type, characteristics of the market, and characteristics of the asset. We find that informed traders use more limit orders than do liquidity traders. Our main result is that liquidity provision shifts as trading progresses, with informed traders increasingly providing liquidity in markets. The change in the behavior of the informed traders seems to be in response to the dynamic adjustment of prices to information; they take (provide) liquidity when the value of their information is high (low). Thus, a market-making role emerges endogenously in our electronic markets and is ultimately adopted by the traders who are least subject to adverse selection when placing limit orders.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2004.07.001

## 8. Integration, organizational processes, and allocation of resources
### Date
- Jan 2004
### Author
- Oguzhan Ozbas
### Abstract
Does the level of integration of a firm affect the quality of information available to its top decision makers responsible for allocating resources? Motivated by the pervasiveness of specific knowledge in large multi-division firms, I develop a model of internal competition for corporate resources among specialist managers and show that: (i) managers of integrated firms exaggerate the payoffs of their projects to obtain resources despite potentially adverse career consequences, and (ii) the exaggeration problem worsens with increased integration and reduces the allocative efficiency of an integrated firm. Control rights based on asset ownership enable the firm to set “the rules of the game” and improve managerial behavior through organizational processes such as rigid capital budgets, job rotation, centralization and hierarchies.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2004.01.003

