# JFE, Volume 120, Issue 1
- April 2016
- Pages 1-210

## 1. Editorial Board
### Date
- Apr 2016
### Author
### Abstract

### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/S0304-405X(16)30036-8

## 2. Analyzing volatility risk and risk premium in option contracts: A new theory
### Date
- Jan 2016
### Author
- Peter Carr
- Liuren Wu
### Abstract
We develop a new option pricing framework that tightly integrates with how institutional investors manage options positions. The framework starts with the near-term dynamics of the implied volatility surface and derives no-arbitrage constraints on its current shape. Within this framework, we show that just like option implied volatilities, realized and expected volatilities can also be constructed specific to, and different across, option contracts. Applying the new theory to the S&P 500 index time series and options data, we extract volatility risk and risk premium from the volatility surfaces, and find that the extracted risk premium significantly predicts future stock returns.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2016.01.004

## 3. Volatility risk premia and exchange rate predictability
### Date
- Feb 2016
### Author
- Pasquale Della Corte
- Tarun Ramadorai
- Lucio Sarno
### Abstract
We discover a new currency strategy with highly desirable return and diversification properties, which uses the predictive ability of currency volatility risk premia for currency returns. The volatility risk premium—the difference between expected realized volatility and model-free implied volatility—reflects the costs of insuring against currency volatility fluctuations. The strategy sells high insurance-cost currencies and buys low insurance-cost currencies. A distinctive feature of the strategy’s returns is that they are mainly generated by movements in spot exchange rates instead of interest rate differentials. We explore explanations for the profitability of the strategy, which cannot be understood using traditional risk factors.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2016.02.015

## 4. The expected returns and valuations of private and public firms
### Date
- Jan 2016
### Author
- Ilan Cooper
- Richard Priestley
### Abstract
Characteristics play a similar role in describing returns in private firms as in public firms. This evidence suggests a causal effect of optimal investment underlying the role of characteristics, as private firms do not have stock prices to over- or under-react on. Common factor models largely describe the cross section of investment returns of both types of firms, suggesting that the common factors are likely aggregate risk factors. Finally, the cost of capital and firm valuations are similar across private and public firms.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2016.01.023

## 5. Dual ownership, returns, and voting in mergers
### Date
- Jan 2016
### Author
- Andriy Bodnaruk
- Marco Rossi
### Abstract
In Mergers and Acquisitions (M&As) a significant proportion of targets’ equity is owned by financial institutions that simultaneously own targets’ bonds (“dual holders”). Targets with larger equity ownership by dual holders have lower M&A equity premia and larger abnormal bond returns, particularly when dual holders stand to benefit more from appreciation of their bond stakes, e.g., when their bond ownership in the target is large and the target credit rating is non-investment grade. Dual holders are more likely to vote in favor of the merger proposal. Our results suggest the presence of coordination of decisions within dual holding financial conglomerates in M&A targets.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2016.01.021

## 6. Spare tire? Stock markets, banking crises, and economic recoveries
### Date
- May 2015
### Author
- Ross Levine
- Chen Lin
- Wensi Xie
### Abstract
Do stock markets act as a spare tire during banking crises, providing an alternative corporate financing channel and mitigating the economic severity of these crises? Using firm-level data in 36 countries from 1990 through 2011, we find that the adverse consequences of banking crises on equity issuances, firm profitability, employment, and investment efficiency are smaller in countries with stronger shareholder protection laws. These findings are not explained by the development of stock markets or financial institutions prior to the crises, the severity of the banking crisis, or overall economic, legal, and institutional development.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2015.05.009

## 7. Redacting proprietary information at the initial public offering
### Date
- Jun 2015
### Author
- Audra L. Boone
- Ioannis V. Floros
- Shane A. Johnson
### Abstract
Nearly 40% of IPO firms redact information from their SEC registration filings. These firms exhibit characteristics consistent with the need to shield proprietary information from potential rivals. They experience greater underpricing, but pre-IPO insiders reduce underpricing-related wealth transfers by selling proportionately less of the firm's shares at the IPO, raising more equity financing in later seasoned equity offerings, and selling their own holdings at a relatively slow pace. The information environment of redacting firms reflects proportionately more private information than that of non-redacting firms post-IPO, but this difference abates by the fourth year. Consistent with the view that redacted proprietary information provides competitive advantages, redacting firms exhibit superior financial performance post-IPO. The results illustrate tradeoffs in balancing a firm's needs to protect proprietary information with its capital needs, investor needs for information to price securities, and pre-IPO owner liquidity needs.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2015.06.016

## 8. On secondary buyouts
### Date
- Aug 2015
### Author
- Francois Degeorge
- Jens Martin
- Ludovic Phalippou
### Abstract
Private equity firms increasingly sell companies to each other in secondary buyouts (SBOs), raising concerns which we examine using novel data sets. Our evidence paints a nuanced picture. SBOs underperform and destroy value for investors when they are made by buyers under pressure to spend. Investors then reduce their capital allocation to the firms doing those transactions. But not all SBOs are money-burning devices. SBOs made under no pressure to spend perform as well as other buyouts. When buyer and seller have complementary skill sets, SBOs outperform other buyouts. Investors do not pay higher total transaction costs as a result of SBOs, even if they have a stake in both the buying fund and the selling fund.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2015.08.007

## 9. Are retail traders compensated for providing liquidity?
### Date
- Jan 2016
### Author
- Jean-Noel Barrot
- Ron Kaniel
- David Sraer
### Abstract
This paper examines the extent to which individual investors provide liquidity to the stock market and whether they are compensated for doing so. We show that the ability of aggregate retail order imbalances, contrarian in nature, to predict short-term future returns is significantly enhanced during times of market stress, when market liquidity provisions decline. While a weekly rebalanced portfolio long in stocks purchased and short in stocks sold by retail investors delivers 19% annualized excess returns over a four-factor model from 2002 to 2010, it delivers up to 40% annualized returns in periods of high uncertainty. Despite this high aggregate performance, individual investors do not reap the rewards from liquidity provision because they experience a negative return on the day of their trade and they reverse their trades long after the excess returns from liquidity provision are dissipated. During the financial crisis, French active retail stock traders stepped up to the plate, increased stock holdings, and provided liquidity. In contrast, mutual fund investors fled from delegation by selling their mutual funds.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2016.01.005

## 10. Using options to measure the full value-effect of an event: Application to Obamacare
### Date
- Jan 2016
### Author
- Paul Borochin
- Joseph Golec
### Abstract
Many event studies only measure a fraction of an event's full value effect because they do not adjust for market anticipation of the event. We present a method based on stock and options prices to measure the full effect that accounts for market anticipation. We apply the method to the passage of Obamacare. Our method estimates the full value effect of Obamacare on the healthcare sector as $55 billion, compared to $16 billion when market anticipation is ignored. The method is applicable to most major events because it only requires that some affected firms have traded stock options.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2016.01.009

## 11. CEO overconfidence and financial crisis: Evidence from bank lending and leverage
### Date
- Apr 2015
### Author
- Po-Hsin Ho
- Chia-Wei Huang
- Chih-Yung Lin
- Ju-Fang Yen
### Abstract
Over a period that includes the 1998 Russian crisis and 2007–2009 financial crisis, banks with overconfident chief executive officers (CEOs) were more likely to weaken lending standards and increase leverage than other banks in advance of a crisis, making them more vulnerable to the shock of the crisis. During crisis years, they generally experienced more increases in loan defaults, greater drops in operating and stock return performance, greater increases in expected default probability, and higher likelihood of CEO turnover or failure than other banks. CEO overconfidence thus can explain the cross-sectional heterogeneity in risk-taking behavior among banks.
### Link
- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfineco.2015.04.007

